Virtual aliases support (#3728)
ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP: docs/how-to/hip_runtime_api/memory_management/virtual_memory.rst

Reviewer: At line 71, I would use a paragraph break for this content:
:cpp:enumerator:`hipSuccess`, with :cpp:type:`hipMemGenericAllocationHandle_t`
representing a valid physical memory allocation. 

The allocated memory size must be aligned with the granularity appropriate for the properties of the
allocation. You can use the :cpp:func:`hipMemGetAllocationGranularity` function
to determine the correct granularity.

Author: Added.

Reviewer: AT line 91 I would make the following changes:
After you have acquired an allocation of physical memory, you must map it to a virtual address before
you can use it.

Author: Updated.

Reviewer: On line 110, the :cpp:struct:`hipMemAccessDesc` descriptor could use a bit more description. It does not show up in the linked reference material, but that is where it belongs.

Author: Updated.

Reviewer: At line 156, I would move the Dynamically increase allocation size topic up into the Memory Allocation section, ahead of the Free Memory topic. I don't think it needs to be separated into the Memory Usage section.

Author: Fixed.

Reviewer: For line 173, is there any instruction on how to do this? 
so you should validate that ``new_ptr`` points to a specific virtual address before using it

Author: I will create a separate issue to review the rest of the document. It would take more time to write a better example for this section.

:cpp:func:`hipMemSetAccess` functions. This guide explains what these functions
do and how you can use them for virtual memory management.

Virtual memory management support
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> The first step is to check, if the GPU support the virtual memory management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is to check if the targeted device or GPU supports virtual memory management.
```

The ``hipDeviceAttributeVirtualMemoryManagementSupported`` attribute can be get

> for a specific GPU with the :cpp:func:`hipDeviceGetAttribute` function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the :cpp:func:`hipDeviceGetAttribute` function to get the 
``hipDeviceAttributeVirtualMemoryManagementSupported`` attribute for a specific GPU, as shown in the following example.
```

.. code-block:: cpp

    int vmm = 0, currentDev = 0;
    hipDeviceGetAttribute(
        &vmm, hipDeviceAttributeVirtualMemoryManagementSupported, currentDev
    );

    if (vmm == 0) {
        std::cout << "GPU " << currentDev << " doesn't support virtual memory management." << std::endl;
    } else {
        std::cout << "GPU " << currentDev << " support virtual memory management." << std::endl;
    }

Allocate physical memory
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> Next step to allocate the physical memory itself with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step is to allocate the physical memory using the
```

Allocate physical memory
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The next step is to allocate the physical memory using the
:cpp:func:`hipMemCreate` function. This function accepts the size of the buffer,
an ``unsigned long long`` variable for the flags, and a
:cpp:struct:`hipMemAllocationProp` variable. :cpp:struct:`hipMemAllocationProp`
contains the properties of the memory to be allocated, such as where the memory
is physically located and what kind of shareable handles are available. If the
allocation is successful, the function returns a value of
:cpp:enumerator:`hipSuccess`, with :cpp:type:`hipMemGenericAllocationHandle_t`
representing a valid physical memory allocation.

The allocated memory size must be aligned with the granularity appropriate for
the properties of the allocation. If the allocation size not in alignment (not
dividable) with the minimum granularity of the allocation, the
:cpp:func:`hipMemCreate` function return out of memory error. You can use the
:cpp:func:`hipMemGetAllocationGranularity` function to determine the correct
granularity, which value is effected by the used hardware and type of

> allocation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The allocated memory size must be aligned with the granularity appropriate for
the properties of the allocation. If the allocation size is not in alignment (not
dividable) with the minimum granularity of the allocation, the
:cpp:func:`hipMemCreate` function returns an out of memory error. You can use the
:cpp:func:`hipMemGetAllocationGranularity` function to determine the correct
granularity, which is affected by the targeted device hardware and type of
memory allocation.
```

.. code-block:: cpp

    int vmm = 0, currentDev = 0;
    hipDeviceGetAttribute(
        &vmm, hipDeviceAttributeVirtualMemoryManagementSupported, currentDev
    );

    if (vmm == 0) {
        std::cout << "GPU " << currentDev << " doesn't support virtual memory management." << std::endl;
    } else {
        std::cout << "GPU " << currentDev << " support virtual memory management." << std::endl;
    }

.. _allocate_physical_memory:

Allocate physical memory
------------------------

The next step is to allocate the physical memory using the
:cpp:func:`hipMemCreate` function. This function accepts the size of the buffer,
an ``unsigned long long`` variable for the flags, and a
:cpp:struct:`hipMemAllocationProp` variable. :cpp:struct:`hipMemAllocationProp`
contains the properties of the memory to be allocated, such as where the memory
is physically located and what kind of shareable handles are available. If the
allocation is successful, the function returns a value of
:cpp:enumerator:`hipSuccess`, with :cpp:type:`hipMemGenericAllocationHandle_t`
representing a valid physical memory allocation.

> The allocated memory size must be aligned with the granularity appropriate for
> the properties of the allocation. If the allocation size is not in alignment (not
> dividable) with the minimum granularity of the allocation, the
> :cpp:func:`hipMemCreate` function returns an out of memory error. You can use the
> :cpp:func:`hipMemGetAllocationGranularity` function to determine the correct
> granularity, which is affected by the targeted device hardware and type of
> memory allocation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The allocated memory must be aligned with the appropriate granularity. The
granularity can be queried with :cpp:func:`hipMemGetAllocationGranularity`;
the target device hardware and type of memory allocation effect the returned
value. If the allocation size is not in alignment (i.e. not cleanly divisible) with
the minimum granularity value, :cpp:func:`hipMemCreate` returns an
out-of-memory error.
```
This paragraph is quite awkward, and difficult to follow. I have provided a suggested re-phrasing, feel free to use or re-write as you see fit.

Author: Yes, the tech writer labeled this paragraph, but I did not find a good replacement. We try to avoid the `i.e`. and `;`. That's why I made slight changes to your suggestion. Please check the outcome.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, looks good

    size_t granularity = 0;
    hipMemGenericAllocationHandle_t allocHandle;
    hipMemAllocationProp prop = {};

>     prop.type = hipMemAllocationTypePinned;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # I would add some comments to this example code to better explain
    prop.type = hipMemAllocationTypePinned;
```

Author: Fixed.

.. code-block:: cpp

    hipMemAccessDesc accessDesc = {};
    accessDesc.location.type = hipMemLocationTypeDevice;
    accessDesc.location.id = currentDev;
    accessDesc.flags = hipMemAccessFlagsProtReadwrite;
    hipMemSetAccess(ptr, padded_size, &accessDesc, 1);

At this point the memory is allocated, mapped, and ready for use. You can read
and write to it, just like you would a C style memory allocation.

.. _usage_virtual_memory:

Dynamically increase allocation size
------------------------------------

> The :cpp:func:`hipMemAddressReserve` function allows you to increase the amount
> of pre-allocated memory. This function accepts a parameter representing the
> requested starting address of the virtual memory. This allows you to have a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To increase the amount of pre-allocated memory use :cpp:func:`hipMemAddressReserve`;
which accepts the starting address, and the size of the reservation in bytes.  This allows you to have a
```
Unclear sentences

Author: We try to avoid `;`. That's why I made slight changes to your suggestion. Please check the outcome.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, looks good

reserve the memory address at the specified location. However, this isn't
guaranteed to be true, so you should validate that ``new_ptr`` points to a
specific virtual address before using it.

Virtual aliases
================================================================================

> Virtual aliases is multiple virtual memory addresses map to the same

Reviewer 3: Just a quick grammar fix but replace `is` with `are` and `map` with `mapping`

Author: Fixed, thanks.

physical memory on the GPU. This allows different threads, processes, or memory
allocations to access shared physical memory through different virtual
addresses.

Multiple virtual memory mappings can be created using multiple calls to
:cpp:func:`hipMemMap` on the same memory allocation.

.. note::
    
    RDNA cards may not produce correct results, if users access two different
    virtual addresses that map to the same physical address. In this case, the
    L1 data caches will be incoherent due to the virtual-to-physical aliasing.

    These GPUs will produce correct results if users access virtual-to-physical
    aliases using volatile pointers.

    At NVIDIA cards, the virtual aliases requires special fencing to produce
    correct results.

Example code
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> The example code of virtual aliases do the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example code of virtual aliases uses the following steps:
```

> 0. Check virtual memory management support: The :cpp:func:`hipDeviceGetAttribute`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check virtual memory management support: The :cpp:func:`hipDeviceGetAttribute`
```
I would start the list with 1. 

In addition, the first few steps reflect the **Memory Allocations** steps described above. Maybe we could reference the steps above?

Author: Updated added links.

   function is used to check the virtual memory management support of the GPU
   with ID 0.

1. Physical memory allocation: Physical memory is allocated using
   :cpp:func:`funchipMemCreate` with pinned memory on the device.

2. Virtual memory reservation: Two separate virtual address ranges are reserved
   using :cpp:func:`hipMemAddressReserve`.

3. Mapping virtual addresses to physical memory: The physical memory is mapped
   to two different virtual addresses (``virtualPointerA`` and
   ``virtualPointerB``) using :cpp:func:`hipMemMap`.

4. Memory access permissions: Permissions are set for both aliases to allow read
   and write access using :cpp:func:`hipMemSetAccess`.

5. Memory operations: Data is written to the memory via ``virtualPointerA``
   alias and read through another ``virtualPointerB`` alias.

6. Launch kernels: The ``zeroAddr``, ``fillAddr`` and ``updateBoth`` kernels are

>    launched on the aliases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Launch kernels: The ``zeroAddr``, ``fillAddr`` and ``updateBoth`` kernels are
   launched using the virtual memory aliases.
```

Reviewer: But why do they need to use the virtual memory aliases? Is there a reason for that in this example?

Author: Updated.

    hipMemRelease(allocHandle);
    hipMemAddressFree(ptr, size);

Virtual aliases
================================================================================

Virtual aliases are multiple virtual memory addresses mapping to the same
physical memory on the GPU. This allows different threads, processes, or memory
allocations to access shared physical memory through different virtual
addresses on different devices.

Multiple virtual memory mappings can be created using multiple calls to
:cpp:func:`hipMemMap` on the same memory allocation.

.. note::
    

>     RDNA cards may not produce correct results, if users access two different
>     virtual addresses that map to the same physical address. In this case, the
>     L1 data caches will be incoherent due to the virtual-to-physical aliasing.
> 
>     These GPUs will produce correct results if users access virtual-to-physical
>     aliases using volatile pointers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    RDNA cards may not produce correct results, if users access two different
    virtual addresses that map to the same physical address. In this case, the
    L1 data caches will be incoherent due to the virtual-to-physical aliasing.
    These GPUs will produce correct results if users access virtual-to-physical
    aliases using volatile pointers.
```
[NIT] Combine into one paragraph as the hanging sentence, directly follows from the previous one.

>     At NVIDIA cards, the virtual aliases requires special fencing to produce
>     correct results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    NVIDIA GPUs require special fences to produce correct results when
    using virtual aliases.
```
Odd sentence

Example code
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

> The example code of virtual aliases uses the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The virtual aliases example follows these steps:
```
[NIT] Bit verbose
